HOMEWORK WEEK2

This week’s homework will be purely Project based. You need to work as a group and the homework 
will be submitted by one of the members of your group. List the other members of your group in the 
document, so that your instructor can mark every student. 

Group Members: Sophie Owen


1. Your group needs to decide what kind of project you are going to work on and lock in your 
decision. 
Agriculture - How weather affects soil moisture and how that links to crop growth

2. You need to submit a free style paper that describes your project on a high level. Please 
cover the following questions:
1. What kind of data research and analysis are you going to take on?
I am going to gather data from APIs relating to my topic. I would like to explore the links between weather
patterns and crop growth, and soil moisture levels to analyse the effects of weather on these.
As an additional step for the project I would like to use this data to then create recommendations on when
to water crops. This will be based on weather forecasts, soil moisture data, and the collected data links between
soil moisture and highest levels of crop growth. 

2. What industry or areas does it cover?
Agriculture, Environment, potentially Government and Finance

3. What questions are you planning to answer?
- What are the links between weather i.e. rainfall, sun, cloud cover and more, on agricultural factors
such as soil moisture, levels of nitrate and other nutrients in the soil, and crop growth?
- What weather causes the highest increase in income from agriculture? And what are the crops to  

4. What data sources are you planning to use?
APIs: Storm which includes weather and soil data, METOffice potentially for double checking weather data
The Government Website also has APIs on crop growth although there are likely more APIs that have more 
detailed data on regional crop growth.

5. Describe the team approach to the project work: how are you planning to distribute the 
workload, how are you managing your code, how are you planning to work on your 
project?
Splitting it into stages. Task 1 will be to collect data from the APIs and present the data visually to
disover links. The next stages will get more complex and eventually lead to machine learning. 
I will manage my code through github, creating branches within a coursework repository. I will make sure to save 
each stage of the project as it's own commit. I will create tests throughout the project to check the code
runs as it should, and ensure that any changes I make still result in passing these tests. 
